Pc Plugin is a plugin that generate the Program Counter

[code](https://github.com/SpinalHDL/NaxRiscv/blob/main/src/main/scala/naxriscv/fetch/PcPlugin.scala)

---

The `PcPlugin` is connected to the first stage of the Fetch pipeline, and generates the program counter to find out where to fetch the instruction.

The PC can be generated either by :
- incrementing the previous PC by  `FETCH_DATA_WIDTH/8` (default 64/8 = 8 bytes) 
- jumping to an address provided by another plugin
- jumping to `resetVector` at initialisation

___
#### Init

PC is initialised with `resetVector` value which is a `PcPlugin` parameter.

PC takes this value until the end of init process defined in init area.
The init area calls all `InitCycles` services, and selects the service that takes the most cycles to complete. The number of init cycles of this service is used to implement a counter. When the counter reaches the upper bound, it means that all plugins that need `InitCycles` are initialised.
`booted` becomes true and we can change the PC.
For example, the `RfAllocationPlugin` needs init cycles to initialise the allocation table.

___
#### Increment

In normal operation, the PC is incrementing by `FETCH_DATA_WIDTH/8`, in the main example 64/8 = 8 bytes.

At each increment, we send the new PC to the first stage of the Fetch pipeline via the `FETCH_PC` stageable.
We send also the next PC generated by incrementing, in the `FETCH_PC_INC` stageable.


___
#### Jump

Sometimes, for some reason, the next PC is not generated by incrementing, but directly provided by another plugin.

The plugins use the `createJumpInterface` function to create an interface with the `PcPlugin` and send the next PC. Each interface created has a priority.

The existing jump interfaces in the main example with their priority :
- **Aligner Plugin(90) :** if RVC, and if the input word is cut by some bad prediction aliasing
- **Commit Plugin(200) :** for rescheduling (memory access error, MMU miss, CSR access fault, branch misprediction)
- **FetchCache Plugin(4) :** for cache misses
- **DecoderPrediction Plugin(100) :** for branch prediction
- **Btb Plugin(3) :** for branch prediction
- **Privileged Plugin(201) :** for the return from subroutine, jump to the machine exception PC, debug, fence instructions

If one of these interfaces sends a valid PC, we jump to it. If there are several valid interfaces, we select the one with the highest priority value.