RfTranslation Plugin is a plugin that :
- links `ARCH_RD` with `PHYS_RD`, i.e. a architectural destination register with its current physical destination register
- translates `ARCH_RS` to `PHYS_RS` by reading the entries, i.e. giving the physical register associated with a given architectural register
- If an entry is rewritten, it gives the old physical register value stored in `PHYS_RD_FREE`
So, it's the Register Allocation Table of NaxRiscv

[code](https://github.com/SpinalHDL/NaxRiscv/blob/main/src/main/scala/naxriscv/frontend/RfTranslationPlugin.scala)

---

There is two tables with 32 entries :
- write table
- commit table. 

In each entry, there is a physical register number.
It's addressed with `ARCH_RD` or `ARCH_RS` stageables.

| Write table | Commit table |
| :---: | :---: |
| Physical register | Physical register |
| ... | ... |

Moreover, there is a 32 bits register (location) in order to know which table select.
So there is write ports for each table, and the location register selects the data that flows through the read ports.

#### Write table

> Translate from architectural to physical, updated after the instruction decoding

There is `DISPATCH_COUNT` write ports. As in the Naxriscv default configuration, `COMMIT_COUNT` = 2, there is 2 write ports.

These write ports are connected to allocated stage of frontend pipeline. 
When stage is fireing and the instruction has a destination register, the `PHYS_RD` associated is written in the `ARCH_RD` entry.

In the same time, the physical register number stored before the write, is assigned to `PHYS_RD_FREE`. 
As a new value will be associated with the architectural register `ARCH_RD`, we can delete the old value stored in `PHYS_RD_FREE`. So, at commit, we will release `PHYS_RD_FREE` physical register by pushing it in the allocation table of [[doc/3. NaxRiscv Plugins/RfAllocation Plugin/0. Presentation#PUSH (write)|RfAllocation Plugin]].

When the instruction hasn't a destination register, or there is no old value stored `PHYS_RD_FREE = 0`.

As we issue 2 instructions per cycle, depending on `DISPATCH_MASK`, we write 1 or 2 `PHYS_RD`, using the associated write ports.

#### Commit table

> Translate from architectural to physical, updated after the instruction commit

There is `COMMIT_COUNT` write ports. As in the Naxriscv default configuration, `COMMIT_COUNT` = 2, there is 2 write ports.

These write ports are connected to `CommitPlugin`. 
When there is a commit event and the instruction committed has a destination register, the `PHYS_RD` associated is written in the `ARCH_RD` entry.

#### Location register

> Translate from architectural to which mapping should be used

It's a 32 bits register, 1 bit for each table entry.
- bit = 1 : The write table entry will be used
- bit = 0 : The commit table entry will be used

When there is a write in an entry of the write table, the bit associated to the entry is set.
When there is a rollback, all bits of the register are unset.

#### Rollback

> Rollback after branch misprediction, or trap, or CSR instruction (ebreak, ecall, fence, ...)

The rollback port is connected to `CommitPlugin`. 

When there is a rollback, as all bits of the location register are unset, we use the commit table for address translation. This ensures that we use commited register values after a rollback.

#### Initialization

During initialization at reset, all commit table entries are set to zero, and the location register is set also to zero.


