RfDependency Plugin is a table (Dependency Storage) that :
- links `PHYS_RD` with `ROB.ID`
- gives the dependencies between `ROB.ID` and the `PHYS_RS`

[code](https://github.com/SpinalHDL/NaxRiscv/blob/main/src/main/scala/naxriscv/frontend/RfDependencyPlugin.scala)

---

The table has 64 entries (RegFile Plugin physicalDepth). 
In each entry, there is a `ROB ID` and a valid bit.
It's addressed with `PHYS_RD` stageable.

| translation.physToRob | status.busy |
| :---: | :---: |
| ROB ID | valid bit |
| ... | ... |

The table has 3 types of ports :
- **io.writes :** to write the `ROB ID` and set the valid bit in the `PHYS_RD` entry
- **io.reads :** to read the `PHYS_RD` entry 
- **io.commits :** to unset the valid bit

#### Write ports

> Used to write `ROB ID` in the table, in order to link `PHYS_RD` and `ROB.ID`.

There is `COMMIT_COUNT` ports. As in the Naxriscv default configuration, `COMMIT_COUNT = 2`, there is 2 write ports.

These ports are connected to dispatch stage of frontend pipeline. 
When stage is fireing and the instruction has a destination register, the `ROB ID` associated is written in the `PHYS_RD` entry.
The valid bit is also set.

As we issue 2 instructions per cycle, depending on `DISPATCH_MASK`, we write 1 or 2 `ROB ID`, using the associated write ports.

#### Read ports

> Used to read the table, and gives the dependencies between `ROB.ID` and the `PHYS_RS`.

There is (`DISPATCH_COUNT * number of RS`) ports. As in the Naxriscv default configuration, `DISPATCH_COUNT = 2`, and there is at most 2 source registers used, there is 4 read ports.

These ports are connected to dispatch stage of frontend pipeline, and to the `DispatchPlugin`. 
When stage is valid and the instruction has source registers, the `ROB ID` in the `PHYS_RS` entries are read.

The values read are sent to the `DispatchPlugin` throw `ID` and `ENABLE` stageables. These stageables are used to determine which ROBs to follow, in order to know when an instruction can be distributed due to the availability of source registers.

#### Commit ports

> Used to unlink `PHYS_RD` and `ROB.ID`, when `ROB.ID` is no longer executing.

The number of ports depends on :
- The different static latency values used
- The different dynamic latency values used
- The number of Execute Unit used
- The wakeRf flows implemented in some plugin (e.g. Lsu2)

In the Naxriscv default configuration :
- The `Lsu2Plugin` uses 3 commit ports in its implementation.
- There is 2 Execute Units with static latencies (ALU0 and ALU1), but there is only 1 value used (0), so 1 commit port used for each ALU.
- There is 1 Execute Unit with dynamic latencies (EU0), but there is only 1 value used (2), so 1 commit port used.
So, in total there is 6 commit ports.

When a wakeRf flow is valid, the valid bit is unset in the `PHYS_RD` entry.

#### Initialisation

During initialisation at reset, all valid bits are unset.
