Commit Plugin is a plugin that :
- allocates ROB id in the frontend
- commits instructions
- frees entries in the allocation table of `RfAllocationPlugin`
- manages the rescheduling of instructions

[code](https://github.com/SpinalHDL/NaxRiscv/blob/main/src/main/scala/naxriscv/misc/CommitPlugin.scala)

___

The plugin works mainly thanks to 3 pointers :
- `alloc` pointer that gives the ROB id to allocate in the frontend
- `commit` pointer that gives the ROB id, i.e. the instruction, to commit
- `free` pointer that gives the available physical register to the allocation table via the ROB id

If we compare with OoO course, `alloc` pointer = ISSUE pointer and `commit` pointer = COMMIT pointer.

The 3 pointers count up to the size of the ROB * 2 and are initialised to 0.

The `free` pointer is always `ROB.COLS` steps behind the `commit` pointer.
On the other hand, the gap between the `commit` pointer and the `alloc` pointer can fluctuate.

#### Allocation

When `frontend.pipeline.allocated` stage is fireing :
- `alloc` pointer is incremented by `ROB.COLS`, so 2 in the main example
- `ROB.ID` stageable takes the value of the `alloc` pointer without the msb
- `ROB.MSB` stageable takes the value of the `alloc` pointer msb

If `alloc` ^ `free` = ROB size (same as | alloc - free | ), `frontend.pipeline.allocated` stage is halted as there is no ROB entry available.

#### Commit

The `commit` pointer without the msb gives the ROB id to commit.
In order to commit a ROB entry, i.e. an instruction, it must first be known whether this instruction has been executed. 

This can be done via the `robLineMask` interface with the `RobPlugin`.
Indeed, when an instruction completes its execution, the execution unit sends a valid `robCompletion` signal to the `RobPlugin`. 
So, when the ROB entry pointed to by `commit` has an instruction executed, `robLineMask.mask` will have a bit set.

In our main example, with `ROB.COLS = 2`, there are at most 2 instructions to commit, `robLineMask.mask` can be :
- **00 :** none one of the instructions are executed and ready for commit
- **01, 10 :** one of the instructions is executed and ready for commit
- **11 :** the two instructions are executed and ready for commit

It's in the commit area that we manage the commit operations. There are two important variable :
- `active` : it's the `DISPATCH_MASK` read in the ROB, it allows to know if an instruction is valid. The associated bit is equal to 1 when is valid.
- `mask` : it allows to know if an instruction is already committed. The associated bit is equal to 0 when is committed.
These variables are `ROB.COLS` bits wide

From these 2 variables, others are derived :
- `enable = mask & active` : true if a **valid** instruction is not yet committed
- `lineCommited = (mask & active == 0)` : true if all **valid** instructions of `ROB.COLS` are committed.

##### Commit steps
**1) Instruction commit**

When for an instruction pointed to by `commit`, `enable = true`, `robLineMask.mask = 1` and the instruction did not result in rescheduling :
- The bit in `mask` value is set to 0, to say that this instruction is committed
- The plugin send a `commit.event.mask = true` to all plugins that use `onCommit()`. For example, the `RfTranslationPlugin` will update its commit table.

**2) Line committed**

When all the valid instructions of a ROB line are committed, `lineCommited = true` :
- The `commit` pointer is incremented by `ROB.COLS`
- All the bits of `mask` are set to 1 for the next commit operations
- We send a `lineEvent` to the `free` area, to perform the free operations after the commit operations.
	The `lineEvent` fields are :
	- **mask =** `active` ^ `mask`, if a bit of mask is equal to 1, it means the associated instruction is valid and committed
	- **robId =** `commit` pointer

#### Free

The free area is connected to `commit.lineEvent` through a fifo with latency 1.
It is also connected to `RfAllocationPlugin` to send free event that push free physical registers into the allocation table

When `free` and `commit` pointers are not equal, `canFree = True`. 
We have this when `lineCommited = true`, because the `commit` pointer is incremented.

So when `canFree = True` :
- The `free` pointer is incremented by `ROB.COLS`
- The `freePort()` fields are filled and send to `RfAllocationPlugin`
	- **valid =** `canFree`
	- **robId =** `free` pointer
	- **committed =** mask sent by commit `lineEvent` to know which instructions are valid and committed. Depending on this field, the new or old physical register is inserted into the allocation table of the `RfAllocationPlugin`.

#### Reschedule

When there is a branch, a trap, or an environment call(ECALL, EBREAK, etc), we may need to jump to a specific PC. As we are in a out-of-order core, instructions after this jump may be executed, so we need to perform reschedule operations.

It's managed in `reschedule` area. Plugins like `Lsu2Plugin`, `EnvCallPlugin` or `BranchPlugin` are connected to this area through `newSchedulePort`.

These schedule ports have settings for whether they allow jump and/or trap, and have the following fields :
- **robId :** ROB id associated to the instruction
- **trap :** True if it's a trap
- **pcTarget :** PC target for jump
- **cause :** The cause when it's a trap
- **tval :** Address or instruction PC causing the trap
- **skipCommit :** Skip commit for exceptions but not for jump, ebreak, and redo
- **reason :** Rescheduling reason

For each schedule port, we associate :
- an `age` that give the difference between the ROB id and the current `free` pointer. The larger the difference is, the more recent the instruction causing the rescheduling is.
- an `id` that give the port number among all the schedule ports
- a bit in the `hits` vector

A bit in the `hits` vector is set to 1 when :
- there is a valid stream in the associated `newSchedulePort` port
AND
- all other ports do not have a valid stream or have a valid stream with a higher `age`, as this is not a problem as it is a more recent instruction.
AND
- current register values are not valid or are valid with a higher `age`

So when the `hits` vector has a bit set to 1 :
- The registers in the `reschedule` area are filled with the values of the port associated with the bit. We store the values until the instruction causing the rescheduling reaches the commit step.
- If it's not a trap, we send a valid `jump` stream with a target PC to the `PcPlugin`
- We send through `reschedulingPort` the `reschedule` registers values to other plugins(`RfTranslation`, `Dispatch`, `Lsu2`, `Frontend`, ...) to flush the pipeline. But we distinguish two types of `reschedulingPort` depending on `onCommit` parameter:
	- `onCommit = false` : We send values through `reschedulingPort`, 1 cycle after receiving them
	- `onCommit = true` : We send values through `reschedulingPort`, but only when the ROB id sent by `newSchedulePort` is equal to `commit` pointer. So when the next instructrion to commit is also the instruction that causes the rescheduling.

When the instruction gets to the commit step :
- as mentioned above, we send values through `reschedulingPort`
- the `commit` pointer is reset to the value of the `alloc` pointer
- the valid register in `reschedule` is cleared, to know that the rescheduling has been processed
- we send a `lineEvent` to the `free` area, to perform the free operations after the commit operations. Since the `commit` pointer is equal to the `alloc` pointer, there is no longer just a difference of 1 between the `commit` and `free` pointers. We will need to free many physical registers instead of just one.

